Add more examples of using the CLI (#107)
devcontainers/cli: example-usage/README.md

# Dev Container CLI Examples

> This repository provides a basic examples of using the devcontainer CLI for different use cases. It includes example scripts to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This folder provides basic examples of using the dev container CLI for different use cases. It includes example scripts to:
```

1. [Use three different tools from a development container](#tool-examples)
2. [Use a dev container as your CI build environment to build an application](#ci-build-environment-example) (even if it is not deployed as a container)

> 3. [Build a container image rom a devcontainer.json file](#building-an-image-from-devcontainerjson) that includes [dev container features](https://containers.dev/implementors/features/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. [Build a container image from a devcontainer.json file](#building-an-image-from-devcontainerjson) that includes [dev container features](https://containers.dev/implementors/features/)
```

Each should run on macOS or Linux (including WSL2 on Windows).

## Pre-requisites

1. Install Node.js 16 (e.g., using [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm))
2. Install [node-gyp pre-requisites](https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp):
   - **Linux:** Use your distro's package manager. E.g. on Ubuntu/Debian: `sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install python3-minimal gcc g++ make`
   - **macOS:** Install the XCode Command Line Tools ([more info](https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp/blob/main/README.md#on-macos))

> 3. Make sure you have an OpenSSH compliant `ssh` command available and in your path if you plan to use the `Vim via SSH` example. (It should already be there on macOS, and in Linux/WSL, you can install `openssh-client` using your distro's package manager if its missing.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Make sure you have an OpenSSH compliant `ssh` command available and in your path if you plan to use the `Vim via SSH` example (it should already be there on macOS, and in Linux/WSL, you can install `openssh-client` using your distro's package manager if its missing)
```

3. Install the latest dev container CLI: `npm install -g @devcontainers/cli`

## Using the examples

> All examples use the contents of the `workspace` folder for their configuration if you want to make any modifications. The example scripts are then in different sub-folders. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All examples use the contents of the `workspace` folder for their configuration, which is where you can modifications if you'd like. The example scripts are then in different sub-folders. 
```

> All examples use the contents of the `workspace` folder for their configuration, which is where you can modifications if you'd like. The example scripts are then in different sub-folders. 

Author: Good catch. Yes. Updated.

### Tool examples

> You can use the example by opening a terminal and typing one of the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use these examples by opening a terminal and typing one of the following:
```

> -  `tool-vscode-server/start.sh` - [VS Code Server](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/vscode-server) (official)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `tool-vscode-server/start.sh` - [VS Code Server](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/vscode-server) (official)
```

- `tool-openvscode-server/start.sh` - [openvscode-server](https://github.com/gitpod-io/openvscode-server)

> - `tool-vim-via-ssh/start.sh` - Vim via a SSH connection. SSH is used primarily to demonstrate how this could be achieved from other SSH supporting client tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `tool-vim-via-ssh/start.sh` - Vim via an SSH connection. SSH is used primarily to demonstrate how this could be achieved from other SSH supporting client tools.
```

When switching between examples, pass `true` in as an argument to get the container recreated to avoid port conflicts. e.g., `./start.sh true`

In the first two examples, you'll be instructed to go to `http://localhost:8000` in a browser.

This also adds a desktop to the container that can be accessed from a web browser at `http://localhost:6080` and you can connect using the password `vscode`.

#### How the tool examples work

> This example demonstrates the use of the dev container CLI to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These examples demonstrate the use of the dev container CLI to:
```

> 1. Simplify setup using the "dev container features" concept. For example, SSH support is added just using a feature reference. See ``workspace/.devcontainer/devcontainer.jsonn` for more information.

Reviewer: Add a link to features info?
```suggestion
1. Simplify setup using the "[dev container features](https://github.com/devcontainers/spec/blob/main/proposals/devcontainer-features.md)" concept. For example, SSH support is added just using a feature reference. See `workspace/.devcontainer/devcontainer.json` for more information.
```

> 2. How the dev container CLI can be used to inject tools without building them into the base image as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. How the dev container CLI can be used to inject tools without building them into the base image:
```

    1. Use `devcontainer up` to spin up the container and mount a `server` and `workspace` folder into the container.
    2. Use `devcontainer exec` to run a script from this mounted folder to set up the appropriate server.

>     3. In the `vim` example, a temporary SSH key is setup and configured, and then SSH is used from the command line to connect to the container once it is up and running. See `tool-vim-via-ssh/start.sh` for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    3. In the `vim` example, a temporary SSH key is set up and configured, and then SSH is used from the command line to connect to the container once it is up and running. See `tool-vim-via-ssh/start.sh` for details.
```

Currently the `appPort` property is used in `devcontainer.json` instead of `forwardPorts` due to a gap in the current dev container CLI ([see here](https://github.com/devcontainers/cli/issues/22)).

### CI build environment example

> You can use the example by opening a terminal and typing the following:

Reviewer 2: Add a link to the CI action, so GitHub users are guided towards that.

Author: Updated!

```
ci-app-build-script/build-app.sh
```

After the build completes, you can find the built application in the `workspace/dist` folder.

The initial build can take a bit since it is building the dev container image, which is an example of where [pre-building an image](#building-an-image-from-devcontainerjson) helps.

#### How the CI example works

This example demonstrates the use of the dev container CLI to:

1. Simplify setup using the "dev container features" concept. For example, SSH support is added just using a feature reference. See `workspace/.devcontainer/devcontainer.json` for more information.

2. Execute an application build script inside a dev container as follows:

    1. Use `devcontainer up` to spin up the container and mount the the `workspace` folder into the container.
    2. Use `devcontainer exec` to run a build script from the mounted folder inside the development container.
    3. Delete the container when the build is finished.

> All environment variables are automatically available from "exec", including those that are are set in the non-root user's ".bashrc" file. The devcontainer CLI also automatically adjusts to UID/GID differences for the user inside the container on Linux to ensure the workspace folder is writable.

Reviewer: Should this be formatted as code?
```suggestion
All environment variables are automatically available from `exec`, including those that are are set in the non-root user's `.bashrc` file. The dev container CLI also automatically adjusts to UID/GID differences for the user inside the container on Linux to ensure the workspace folder is writable.
```
